---
layout: default
img: dog.png
category: Services
title: Individual Career Guidance Sessions
description: |
---
These are appointment based sessions where a learner and a parent will be meeting a career practitioner.

This is a 1hr:30 minutes session where:

### Phase 1 - Interview Session:
- Career practitioner interviews a learner – general understanding of a learner’s status quo – 20mins
- Learner takes psychometric tests – 1hr
- Parent(s) , learner and a career practitioner  - 10 minutes

### Phase 2 - Feedback Session:
- Once Psychometric results are back, the career practitioner will schedule an appointment with the learner and the parent.
- The feedback is based on the psychometric test results and the interview with the learner in phase 1.
- The career practitioner will advise the learner on career options available in line with learner’s interest and the feedback.

### Phase 3 - Field Tours:
- These tours are based on career options where all learners which are part of the Career guidance program from different schools
will be grouped and visit an organization offering those career options.

- This is where learners will be taken for a tour in that specific organization, attend presentations given by key senior Managers in the organization, and be assigned a mentor for the day to get practical answers to their questions.
After this tour, a learner will have a clear understanding of what his/ her career choice entails practically and be able to
make informed decisions.

- Post the tour – Learners will have brief group sessions with career PR actioners and this is where learners will short list at least top two career options of their choices.

### Phase 4:
This is the last phase where a career practitioner will send a consolidated report to parents detailing career choices chosen by the learner and advising on career streams to choose, tertiary institutions, and the process followed to apply.

### Phase 5 (Optional for Grade 12):
This is an optional phase where Cultivating young minds offers a service of application on behalf of the learner at Tertiary institutions.
